README.asciidoc, before:


= cacco
Cacco is a programming language.
:toc:

image::https://circleci.com/gh/VoQn/cacco.png?circle-token=:circle-token[]

IMPORTANT: Cacco is still in the design stage. It's not working yet.

[[introduction]]
== Introduction

[[comment]]
=== Comment
----
;; This is inline comment (to the end of the line).

(; <1>
  This is block comment.
  block comment is keeping until the terminator -> ;) ;; <2>

(;
  (; These block comments can be nested. ;)
;)
----
<1> `(;` is the start of block comment
<2> `;)` is the end of block comment

[[literals]]
=== Literals
----
0     ;; Fuzzy Numeric.  (default: Natural)
-1 +1 ;; Fuzzy Integer.  (default: Integer)
0.0   ;; Fuzzy Decimal.  (default: Decimal)
1/2   ;; Rational.
'a'   ;; Character.      (same as Uint32)
""    ;; Fuzzy Text.     (default: String_UTF8)
:key  ;; Keyword.
[]    ;; Fuzzy Sequence. (default: List)
{}    ;; Key-Value Map.
----

|===
|Fuzzy Types    | Include Types

|Fuzzy-Numeric  | Uint8, Uint16, Uint32, Uint64, Natural, and Fuzzy-Integer
|Fuzzy-Integer  | Int8, Int16, Int32, Int64, Integer, and Fuzzy-Decimal
|Fuzzy-Decimal  | Float16, Float32, Float64, Flonum
|Fuzzy-Text     | Bytes, String-UTF8, String-UTF16, String-UTF32
|Fuzzy-Sequence | List, Vector, Array, Sequence
|===

[[declaration-and-reassign]]
=== Declaration and Reassign
----
;; Declare procedure or constant value or variable value.
(: x Integer)

;; Declare a constant value once.
(= x 1000)

;; Declare a mutable variable value.
(:= y 0)

;; Strictly typing with literal.
(= z (: 0 Uint8))
(:= w (: "something" Bytes))

;; Reassign
(=! y 1000)    ;; OK
(=! y "hello") ;; Can't. `y` has been declared as Number type.
(=! x 10)      ;; Can't. `x` has been declared as immutable.
----

[[calling-procedure]]
=== Calling procedure
----
;; Simply calling a procedure.
(foo a b c)

;; Calling closure.
((|a| (* a a)) 10) ;; returns 100
----

[[define-procedure]]
=== Define procedure
----
;; Declare a procedure
(: cubic (-> Number Number)) ;;<1>

;; Define the procedure
(= (cubic x) (* x x x))
----
<1> `(-> T1 T2 ... Tn)` is Function type receive `T1`, `T2` ... then return value as `Tn` type.

[[development]]
== Development
[[prequisites]]
=== Prerequisites

* Haskell Stack

[[build-and-testing]]
=== Build and Testing

[[simply-building-libraries-and-application]]
==== Simply building libraries and application
[source,bash]
----
stack build
----

[[build-clean]]
==== Clean
[source,bash]
----
stack clean
----

[[run-tests]]
==== Run Tests
[source,bash]
----
# simply run test-suites
stack test

# run test-suites and generate coverage-report
stack test --coverage

# open coverage-report in your browser
open $(stack path --local-hpc-root)/index.html
----

[[haddock]]
==== Check Haddock
[source, bash]
----
stack haddock

open $(stack path --local-doc-root)/index.html
----

Commit message:

feat: AIツールディレクトリのGitポリシーを実装
- .cursor/, .serena/, .github/ ディレクトリを共同開発用に追跡
- 各ディレクトリにネストされた .gitignore を追加し、セキュアファイルを無視
- メインの .gitignore を調整し、ディレクトリ自体を追跡
- README.asciidoc にポリシーのドキュメントを追加

README.asciidoc, after:


= cacco
Cacco is a programming language.
:toc:

image::https://circleci.com/gh/VoQn/cacco.png?circle-token=:circle-token[]

IMPORTANT: Cacco is still in the design stage. It's not working yet.

[[introduction]]
== Introduction

[[comment]]
=== Comment
----
;; This is inline comment (to the end of the line).

(; <1>
  This is block comment.
  block comment is keeping until the terminator -> ;) ;; <2>

(;
  (; These block comments can be nested. ;)
;)
----
<1> `(;` is the start of block comment
<2> `;)` is the end of block comment

[[literals]]
=== Literals
----
0     ;; Fuzzy Numeric.  (default: Natural)
-1 +1 ;; Fuzzy Integer.  (default: Integer)
0.0   ;; Fuzzy Decimal.  (default: Decimal)
1/2   ;; Rational.
'a'   ;; Character.      (same as Uint32)
""    ;; Fuzzy Text.     (default: String_UTF8)
:key  ;; Keyword.
[]    ;; Fuzzy Sequence. (default: List)
{}    ;; Key-Value Map.
----

|===
|Fuzzy Types    | Include Types

|Fuzzy-Numeric  | Uint8, Uint16, Uint32, Uint64, Natural, and Fuzzy-Integer
|Fuzzy-Integer  | Int8, Int16, Int32, Int64, Integer, and Fuzzy-Decimal
|Fuzzy-Decimal  | Float16, Float32, Float64, Flonum
|Fuzzy-Text     | Bytes, String-UTF8, String-UTF16, String-UTF32
|Fuzzy-Sequence | List, Vector, Array, Sequence
|===

[[declaration-and-reassign]]
=== Declaration and Reassign
----
;; Declare procedure or constant value or variable value.
(: x Integer)

;; Declare a constant value once.
(= x 1000)

;; Declare a mutable variable value.
(:= y 0)

;; Strictly typing with literal.
(= z (: 0 Uint8))
(:= w (: "something" Bytes))

;; Reassign
(=! y 1000)    ;; OK
(=! y "hello") ;; Can't. `y` has been declared as Number type.
(=! x 10)      ;; Can't. `x` has been declared as immutable.
----

[[calling-procedure]]
=== Calling procedure
----
;; Simply calling a procedure.
(foo a b c)

;; Calling closure.
((|a| (* a a)) 10) ;; returns 100
----

[[define-procedure]]
=== Define procedure
----
;; Declare a procedure
(: cubic (-> Number Number)) ;;<1>

;; Define the procedure
(= (cubic x) (* x x x))
----
<1> `(-> T1 T2 ... Tn)` is Function type receive `T1`, `T2` ... then return value as `Tn` type.

[[development]]
== Development

[[git-policy]]
=== Git Policy for AI Tools

This project uses AI tools (e.g., Cursor, Serena, GitHub Copilot) for collaboration. To balance openness and security:

* **Tracked Directories**: `.cursor/`, `.serena/`, and `.github/` directories are tracked in Git to enable collaboration among contributors.
* **Ignored Secure Files**: Within these directories, sensitive files (e.g., API keys, tokens, secrets, private configurations) are ignored via nested `.gitignore` files.
* **How to Contribute**:
  - Clone the repository and check out the appropriate branch.
  - Ensure your AI tools are configured to respect the nested `.gitignore` files.
  - If you need to add secure files, place them in subdirectories like `secrets/` or `private/` within these directories, as they are automatically ignored.
* **Example**:
  - Place API keys in `.cursor/secrets/api.key` – it will be ignored.
  - Shared configurations can be placed directly in the directory (e.g., `.cursor/settings.json`) and will be tracked.

This policy ensures that collaborative tools remain useful while protecting private information.

[[prequisites]]
=== Prerequisites

* Haskell Stack

[[build-and-testing]]
=== Build and Testing

[[simply-building-libraries-and-application]]
==== Simply building libraries and application
[source,bash]
----
stack build
----

[[build-clean]]
==== Clean
[source,bash]
----
stack clean
----

[[run-tests]]
==== Run Tests
[source,bash]
----
# simply run test-suites
stack test

# run test-suites and generate coverage-report
stack test --coverage

# open coverage-report in your browser
open $(stack path --local-hpc-root)/index.html
----

[[haddock]]
==== Check Haddock
[source, bash]
----
stack haddock

open $(stack path --local-doc-root)/index.html
----
